>> Hello, everyone.
My name is John Wright.
I'm from Core OS Software Engineering.
My team is responsible for a lot of the base functionality
on the iPhone OS, including networking and data security.
As such, we've been kind of integral
in a lot of the features
that are targeted toward the enterprise on the iPhone.
Today, I wanna go over some of those
features and then talk to you a little bit
about how you can use the iPhone
in your enterprise environment.
So the iPhone is gaining a lot of traction in enterprise.
From hospitals to media companies, to law firms, people
are using the iPhone as a new mobile business platform.
In fact, in November of this past year, J.D. Power
and Associates in their survey of top smartphone,
business smartphone devices got the top honor.
So, I'm going to break this session
up into three different sections.
First, I'm going to talk about integrating
into your existing corporate infrastructure.
We're going to talk a little bit about deploying the iPhone
to your users and then we're going to talk a little bit
about developing unique applications for the iPhone.
So let's start with integration.
Now, the iPhone integrates in very well with the
corporate services that you have in your enterprise.
This includes email, calendar, and
contacts and networking services such as VPN
and secure Wi-Fi, and of course Microsoft Exchange.
We continue to update our support for Microsoft Exchange.
We support Exchange Server 2003 and 2007.
And since iPhone OS 2.0, we've been supporting push
email, calendar and contacts and access to the GAL.
Of course, Exchange isn't just about those services,
they're also about administration on the device.
And so, we also support passcode policies and auto-discovery
of the servers on your infrastructure by just putting
in the user's user name and account information.
And Exchange also has a feature for remote wipe.
And this is great because your users can come to you if
their iPhone is lost or stolen and using one of the number
of interfaces into Exchange, you can have that
data securely wiped off that device remotely.
Now, what's new for Exchange and iPhone OS 3.0?
First, we're supporting certificates
as a means of authentication.
Now we'll talk about certificates later in the
program, but one of the key benefits of certificates is
that they can be tied to the device and not the user,
and that gives the IT department a little
bit more control over these devices.
We've also enhanced our policy support, including
passcode policies and IT administration policies.
And we're supporting additional Exchange features
such as searching for messages on the server,
creating and responding to calendar invites,
and push email directly to subfolders.
Now, this is a typical Microsoft Exchange deployment.
You have your Microsoft Exchange
frontend that's hooked up to one
or several backends depending on how big your deployment is.
And you have your directory services,
usually Microsoft Active Directory.
Now, what most customers do is they deploy a Microsoft ISA
Server into their DMZ or some other kind of proxy server
and put a hole through their firewall,
that's a secure SSL tunnel
so that users can access all these
services from outside the firewall.
And this works just like any other Exchange deployment.
So if you've already done this for your users,
the iPhone will just work on this infrastructure.
And new for iPhone 3.0 is you can also integrate
in your certificate server for authentication.
Now, not everyone uses Microsoft Exchange and so we try
to integrate in with all the different open standards.
So for mail we use IMAP and POP.
And new for 3.0, we have CalDAV
as a calendaring server protocol.
And now you can deploy any of the number
of CalDAV calendaring servers including
iCal server and Oracle Beehive.
Also for 3.0, we support LDAP.
Now this supports lookups of address
information directly in mail, contacts, and SMS.
Now, we also integrate into your
corporate network infrastructure.
The iPhone supports Cisco IPSec, L2TP and PTPP for VPN
access, and this access is built right into the iPhone.
There's no need for extra software.
And for authentication, we can use digital certificates,
we can use hardware tokens, since there's a CRYPTOCard
or secure ID, and of course we can use login and password.
And new for 3.0, we have a new feature called VPN
on demand which makes VPN seamless to your users.
And also a highly requested feature is proxy support for
VPN, and that can be configured right in your settings.
So VPN on demand, VPN on demand
is all about the user experience.
We try to create a user experience where the user
doesn't even have to know anything about VPN.
Now, we did this by using certificate based authentication.
And the reason this is beneficial is because if
there's a certificate provisioned on the device,
that device can run all the VPN things it needs in the
background to access services like mail and calendar.
Now it's based on the address domains
of your corporate network.
So the network stack actually detects
whether you're going to the corporate network
and automatically starts up the VPN tunnel.
And the big benefits of this is that it not
only works just for mail and calendaring,
but it works for any network-based application
including those from the iTunes store.
Now, the iPhone is all about wireless access and in most
enterprises that means some kind of secure Wi-Fi access,
and we support all the common protocols
including WPA2 Enterprise.
We also support 8O211, 802.1x authentication
including all the EAP, LEAP and PEAP standards.
And new for 3.0, we have support for captive networks.
And what this does is it detects whether you're on
a network that can't actually access the internet,
and it brings up a web sheet so that your users
can see the information about that hotspot.
And this works in hotels, in coffee
shops all around the world.
So, when your users travel, they
can get on the network more easily.
So, to talk a little bit about integrating
into large deployments of iPhone,
I'd like to invite Duncan Keefe of Apple's IS&T Department.
>> I've been at Apple 8 years and it has been an
interesting ride when you consider that 8 years ago was just
after we started seeing Mac OS X on the front
lines at Apple, and we had a little bit of--
a lot of people just prior to when I started had just
switched over from many, many years of classic Mac OS
and we're sitting here, we had-- apparently we
had a little resistance to some of this, you know.
Some of these people were, "You're going to
take my Mac OS 7 out of my cold dead hands."
But Mac OS X has had two profound
effects on Apple internally.
One is that it has actually made our support operations
a lot easier, and so we have transitioned a lot
of our support operations from a much more kind of
hands-on approach to a much more self-service approach.
So our end-users are sitting here getting a lot of, getting
a lot of information off of our intranet and not so much
out of calling the helpdesk all the time.
And so I could give you a lot of examples, but probably one
of the best examples was actually
when we had to hand out iPhones.
So, let me take you back to when we actually
originally announced the original iPhone.
So, Steve Jobs announces the original iPhone and this is
obviously very, had a little bit of effect in the press.
And then a few days later, he calls a company meeting
and says this is why we're getting into the business,
this is what it means to us and, oh, by the way everybody is
getting a free top of the line iPhone, pandemonium ensues.
About 30 seconds later, my own personal
pandemonium subsided because I thought of myself,
"Who's going to hand out all those phones?
Oh right, me."
So bear in mind also, no one had seen one of these before.
Most of these-- most people had
not seen one even within Apple.
Yes, we do keep this stuff confidential
even inside the company.
>> And so it was a new interface paradigm to everybody.
So, the other thing I remember is that
not everybody at Apple is an engineer.
We have people in HR and Legal and Marketing and what have
you, that may not be as quite as technical as all that.
So we had to teach everybody the new interface paradigms
because they didn't know how to get on to mail,
they didn't know how to get on VPN and also all of
these beautiful self-service provisioning profiles
and all this other stuff that's come out since didn't exist
at the time, so it was, we're going to have to tell you how
to do this and you're going to have to do it yourself
because I'm not going to do this for 14,000 phones.
Just personally speaking I don't have the staff.
So we got an email from Steve a couple of days
later and he says I don't care how you do it,
but I don't want to see any lines and
it all needs to happen in one day.
[ Laughter ]
>> Yeah, 14,000 phones in one day, got it.
So, we kicked it around and got all the legal and financial,
you know, 'cause it's a gift, you have to do tax offsets
and all that fun stuff, all that stuff worked out.
And so what we decided to do was first we did a thing
where we got these little USB devices that plug in
and will read your badge and compare it to a database.
So we, actually use those at all of our
sites for printing out guest badges.
That way, somebody can't just walk over and print out
a guest badge, you have to have an employee come in
and swipe their badge to activate the printer.
So we borrowed those from Security and that solved the
problem of getting people through the lines quickly,
but the other thing was we told the people who were handing
out the phones, you are not going to answer any questions.
You're simply going to hand them the phone
and hand them a piece of paper and the piece
of paper had the obligatory legal boilerplate.
Legal has to prove that they have, they
had some effect on every process, I think.
And I say this with love because
I've got lawyers in the family.
And a big fat URL that said IS&T web which
is our IT department's intranet/iPhone.
And that was it, they were told no questions,
just hand them the phone and hand the piece
of paper that says all your answers are there.
So the helpdesk of course was sitting here going, "Oh my
god 14,000 phones in one day, what are we going to do,
we're going to die, we're going to be-- " So we worked--
they cancelled vacations, they got in contractors,
they just, you know, everyone was on deck.
They thought they were going to get crushed.
Well, what happened was, you know, it starts out a little
quietly and everything's fine and then people start showing
up and, you know, they're happy, they get their phones.
And this is across the company and everybody got one.
And as you can see here, one of the
guys in the lower middle of the shot,
here is one of the guys from the cafeteria staff.
So, most cafeteria staff are not noted for their
technical depth, so obviously they had to do, you know,
use the same services that everybody
else did on our intranet.
So, the helpdesk it turned out they had a spike
alright, but they didn't get crushed at all
because people were getting the
answers they needed off the intranet.
Another thing, if you're an IT person, you're
probably accustomed to not getting too much
in the way of gratitude from your end-users.
You know their attitude is, yeah, I got on the
network today and the sun came up too, so what.
We got a ton of email from people saying, "I expected
this to be a pain, I didn't know what I was doing,
you guys walked me through it, this is fantastic."
You know, and that's the thing, you know, this
is not special to Apple or anything like that.
People actually took the time to tell
us something nice, which is great.
So, this is obviously a testament to the ease of use
of the iPhone, I mean you know shallow learning curve,
but it also you know you can do that sort of
self-service approach and it can be very successful
and obviously we've done that for quite some
time because we did it from day one until now.
So, this is a screenshot of the site at the time.
We had to walk people also through things
like changing their accounts and so on,
and what you can't see is what's below the
fold which is things about mail and so on.
But, this is how we do support.
This is the primary vehicle.
We tell people from the day they start
as part of our onboarding process,
go here because your questions are all answered here,
it will save you some time from going to the helpdesk.
And of course technical people, they
don't want to call the helpdesk.
They are, in some cases they know more than the helpdesk
guy, so what they want to do is they just want to say,
"What do I plug into these fields to make
it work and I'll figure it out from there?"
So, that gives you a shot of how we deploy stuff.
So, what I'm going to talk about now
is how we integrated some of this stuff
into our corporate services and
how we're continuing to do that.
So the primary ones are mail, calendaring and VPN,
may come to you as no surprise that
we don't run Exchange within Apple.
It's not a slam on Microsoft, it's just that you know
long ago we decided open standards is the way to go.
And Apple, Apple was one of the first-- if you
look up the history of domain name registrations,
actually Apple is something like number 34 domain
name ever registered or something like that.
So, you sort of get the sense.
We've been on the internet and as an IT organization we've
been kind of embracing open standards for a long time.
So, we just recently actually completed a switch over
to iCal for all of our calendar users in the company,
and so we wanted to actually bridge that.
I heard somebody applaud.
[ Applause ]
>> Whoever you are, I love you.
And there's nothing like getting a lot of--
because we actually just moved all the
data from our old calendaring system.
So, just give you an idea.
I'm gonna talk generically because
this is, I wanted to relate this
to things that you can do in your own environment.
So, it was very simple.
We've had the mail, you know, since day one as I said
when we started handing out the original iPhones.
So you have a proxy server, and this could be a proxy server
from any one of a variety of solutions you could have.
You know Citrix has one, Barracuda has one.
There are some more well-known names and there
are less well-known names like Imperva and so on.
So you want a web application firewall.
In most cases, that's another way of going about it.
And you just punch, you know, the standard holes
that you would expect into your firewall, use SSL.
This is obviously a well known and well regarded method.
And it will talk to your IMAP server and so on.
For VPN, and as I said we've been doing this for a
long time, so obviously we're pretty happy about it
and obviously security is kind of a big deal here.
We've got a lot of people who are sort of rattling the
virtual doorknobs, if you will, of our network perimeter
and so we've always got to keep that bolted down.
Mr. Jobs would be quite upset with us if anybody got in.
So VPN, obviously again, pretty much
the same things you would expect.
You have a VPN server that handles, you know, the initial
connection, then it checks with the authentication server
and goes on and, you know, it grants access.
What is new obviously is the certificate based VPN, so you
add in a certificate server and that completes that picture.
And you can-- well, you can use the hardware token, the two
factor token, but we are to our end-user's infinite delight,
phasing all of that out, we've recently phased
it out on our Macs and now we are getting,
we are going to be able to get rid of it for the phone.
So, everybody just gets that and
obviously VPN on demand will.
Something we're very interested in.
So integration gets you started because that gets
you access to the sort of fundamental core services
that everybody wants, mail, calendaring and so on.
But then we've gone on from there and added various,
started with simple web apps like Directory.
Directory was an interesting story because we had to--
we were developing-- deploying this because we thought,
you know, people would want it before you know, technically
before you know this was something that was ready to go.
And somebody showed it to Steve Jobs and he said,
"Oh hey, I'd like to, I'd like to demo this."
This was awhile back.
And we had 6 weeks left to do this and the demo that
he was going to use was two and a half weeks out.
So, we went into frantic development
mode and created all the, you know,
created a whole bunch of fake entries and so forth.
And so I'm sitting here 'cause I'm not a developer.
I, you know, let the developers do their thing, so I said,
"Well I'll make up all the names and go grab some faces
from the graphics people and so on, for the directory."
I'm not good at making up names it turns out.
So I'm sitting here finally I'm making up names and I'm
finally like, okay, people used to work with, oh yeah.
So, right after Steve demos it, I got 3 emails
and 2 phone calls from people I used to work with.
"Was that my name on the screen behind Steve?"
[Laughter] "Yeah."
"You owe me a beer."
[Laughter] So, I started with Directory and
Directory lets you do all the obvious stuff.
And bear in mind, none of the tools
that you have now existed then.
We were measuring pixels to make it look like a
native app, because we didn't have anything else.
I mean seriously, I'm watching people,
you know, in Photoshop counting pixels.
But you tap on the phone number, it dials the number.
You tap on the email, it creates a new email message.
And you tap on the location for the building and it call--
it switches views and calls up a map
and so on and so forth, the usual stuff.
>> Then we get into things like
business approvals for purchase requests,
vacation requests, you know, things like that.
And then we get into sort of more business intelligence for
executives, various, you know, dashboards, things like that.
And now we're getting into native apps
actually for the first time in places--
For example the first one we did was for retail,
for handling a lot of the customer appointments.
So, we deploy this all over the company, in all variety of
ways and up to this point, it's actually all been web stuff.
And so, you can see this is obviously very
transformative because we're able to deploy a lot
of information that's previously
required people to log in with the laptop
and haul a laptop around if they wanted to get at it.
Needless to say, executives love this
because they have it at their fingertips.
But, it isn't-shouldn't just be
executives will benefit from it.
So, some best practices.
Employee self-service is not only something you can
get away with, it's something you should embrace
because it will make, it will improve your leverage.
And by setting some basic rules and investing
in the content, this isn't just, you know,
point somebody to a web page on apple.com.
This is, think about how much information is specific to
how you do business and make sure you communicate that,
drive it home with a few emails or some kind,
whatever communication you have with your users
that they can get the answers there and make sure that
you don't deliver the message that, "Oh, I'm giving--
I'm pushing this off on to you," it's
more, "Here's how you can help yourself."
So the quality of the documentation is key.
Editorial voice is key.
Do not write your sort of-- one of the things I've always
struggled with is a lot of IT people want to think that,
you know, they want to communicate, you know their interest
in the technology and most users, they don't get it.
You know some of them, you know as far as they're
concerned, when they hit send on that email,
there's a carrier pigeon running around with
a printout of the email clamped in its beak.
So, you know, they don't-- they don't know, they don't want
to know so just focus on what's going to get them productive
and what do they need to know in
terms of their business needs.
So, you don't need elaborate network services in
most case, so authenticated SSL will take care of it.
Certificate VPN, again, will take care of it and, you
know, that way you can avoid the need for hardware token
if your security needs don't require
it for some regulatory or other need.
And then as I said, don't stop with just
integrating with your core services.
Look at all the other services
you can provide and you'll find
that the development tools will really
help you turn these things around quickly.
So that's it for me, and so I will hand it back to John.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks, Duncan.
So as you can see, the iPhone implements all the
standards that allow you to integrate directly
into your enterprise infrastructure as it exists today.
No need for special services or
servers external to your network.
So let's-- Oh, so here are some sessions around
deploying contact management and calendaring solutions,
and there's also a deep dive on
802.1x that I invite you to check out.
So let's turn to deployment.
Now, there are few things you have to consider when
you think about deployment of iPhone's new enterprise.
First, how are these phones going to
be activated for cellular service?
Which corporate services are they going to need access?
And what kind of device policies and
restrictions do you want to place
on those iPhones before they access your corporate network?
And lastly, how do you want to
deal with device configuration?
Now, there's a-- actually to answer these questions,
there's a couple of paths you can take around deployment.
As Duncan talked about, the iPhone is
really easy to use, from a user perspective.
And it's easy to configure, you know,
accounts and preferences right on the phone.
So one direction you can take is to give your iPhones
out to your users and let them administer their devices.
Just with a few tips, a lot of them do very, very well
and I think it's actually a very low overhead solution.
Now, if you have a lot of user accounts or you have a
lot of policies that you want to implement on the phones,
you need to check out configuration profiles.
Now we have tools to help you with both of these solutions.
So let's take a look at those.
So the first one I want to look at is iTunes.
Now, iTunes is a really easy to use UI, and
for your users it's very well recognized.
They use it at home for all their
media and syncing to their iPods.
So, they'll be very familiar with this if they
have to use this with their corporate phone.
Now, there are a few key functions that require iTunes.
First is device activation, and also software updates
or any in-house app installations
are required to go through iTunes.
Now, a lot of the data that they have on their phones is
going to be synced with Exchange, but it's really beneficial
if they can actually back up their phones to a host
computer in case they have to restore later from backup.
And new for iPhone 3.0 is the ability to
encrypt those backups on the host computer.
And that's a great benefit because it really helps
prevent data loss off of those host computers.
Now, iTunes and Enterprise, now iTunes uses all
the standard installers for both Mac and Windows,
and what this really means is it integrates
in with desktop management solutions.
And we have step by step information on the
Enterprise deployment guide online at Apple.
You can also configure iTunes into activation-only mode.
Now this is very useful if you want to set up a kiosk in
your office to just activate a large number of iPhones.
And Enterprise controls.
Now, Enterprise controls, really what we usually
call those in iTunes is Parental controls,
but they really amount to the same thing.
And a few examples here that are important to
enterprises are the ability to disable network services,
such as the iTunes Store or sharing your
media libraries over the corporate internet.
You can also disable software updates and
being able to check for the iTunes version
to be downloaded, or for the iPhone OS version.
[ Pause ]
>> So, iPhone Configuration Utility or IPCU.
Now IPCU is an easy use GUI for
making configuration profiles.
And it's really set up for IT administrators to be able to
configure these profiles and it will provision them directly
to a device that's hooked up to that host computer, or
you can take those profiles and put them up on the web
so your users can download them, or you can
send them in email directly to your users.
Now, what's new in the new version of IPCU?
First of all we have additional settings, and a lot
of these settings reflect all the new account types
and new support that we have in iPhone 3.0.
We've also implemented some device-side restrictions that
you can configure through the configuration profiles.
And if you manage tightly the use of your devices, you
can also prevent the deletion of profiles off the device.
Now, we deployed a Windows version of IPCU in February of
this year, and so now we ship both Mac and Windows versions
and they're in complete parity with each other.
Also new is the ability to sign and encrypt those profiles,
and the important part of that is it ties
your account information to your policies,
so you can be ensured that those
policies are enforced on your devices.
[Applause] So, I want to talk a little
bit about configuration profiles.
Now, configuration profiles themselves are just XML files,
and the great thing about this is they can be edited
with a standard XML editor, or integrated
into a custom, you know, management solution.
And there's a great developer opportunity
here to be able to integrate these
in to standard device management solutions out there.
Now like I said, they contain all the normal settings for
all the normal standards that we support on the phone,
so Exchange mail accounts, network accounts.
>> And new for iPhone 3.0, CalDAV
accounts and LDAP accounts.
Also a new feature is the ability to install
web clips directly to your user's device,
and these web clips can go off to either a corporate
web service or could just point to user documentation
so they can do the self-help how-to guides.
And also we'd implemented a lot,
a set of device-side restrictions.
Now, device-side restrictions, if you
take a look at our Parental controls
on the device side, they'll look very familiar.
But I want to point out one of them explicitly.
The last one there is the use of the camera.
Now we, we took this request for some
of our sensitive corporate environments
about disabling the use of the camera.
So you can now do that right in the configuration profile.
So also we've enhanced our passcode policies and the
credentials that can be used in configuration profiles.
So, we implement a flexible set of passcode
policies, and there's a lot here and I invite you
to take a look at them in the documentation.
But I want to talk about one in particular.
Now, since we shipped iPhone, we've always
had a backup policy around passcodes.
And what this is as you enter a wrong passcode, it takes
longer and longer to be able to enter the next passcode.
In fact, I think it's at 7 attempts it starts to
go to 15 minutes and it goes even beyond that.
And this, we implemented this to make it hard
for a thief to try to guess your passcode.
Well, now we also can set the maximum
number of failed attempts.
So you can set that maximum number, and
when that maximum number is reached,
it will actually do a wipe on the
device and erase all the data.
So this really helps prevent the
loss of data on your users' devices.
Now certificates, now certificates are basically a
public key and a private key, some information about you
and some information about the certificate
authority that sign the certificate.
Now what they do is they enable secure
authentication and communication.
So, many enterprises already have certificates
used in their enterprise and sometimes they--
what they're using them for is authentication
to Exchange or VPN or some other web service.
And you can use these certificates to set up secure SSL
communications which is fast becoming the standard way
to poke a hole through your firewall for
secure communication to outside your internet.
So, how do you deploy them?
I've already said that, you know, you
deploy them in a configuration profile,
and just like any configuration profile, you can, you can
set them up in that configuration profile and email them
out to your users or you can set up a
web server and have them downloaded.
And new for iPhone 3.0, we implement a new certificate
delivery mechanism called SCEP, and we have a special guest
from Cisco to talk a little bit about this new protocol.
So Cheryl Madson is the technical leader for Cisco IOS VPN
development and has worked on IPSec protocol since 1994.
She was involved in the early formation
of the SCEP protocol,
and we're happy to have her here to tell you about it.
Welcome, Cheryl.
>> Thank you, John.
So, what I'd like to do today is to introduce SCEP as a
protocol, give a little background on it, how it came about
and how the protocol can be used
in different environments today.
This is really a conceptual talk.
It's-- there are various vendors that
support SCEP, but this is not intended
to be a detailed representation of
any vendor's specific implementation.
In fact if you want to learn more about the
iPhone integration with SCEP, you should go--
There will be a session covering that later this week.
So, the Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol
is a protocol to use for certificate enrollment.
It was-- design goal was a lightweight
mechanism for deploying certificates.
It was never intended to be a full-blown
PKI management solution.
The protocol was originally developed by Verisign
for Cisco, and this was about 11 or 12 years ago now.
And at that time, the IETF standards effort had
two major competing proposals, one from Microsoft
and one from Entrust, and we had a real problem.
We wanted it to be able to ship routers,
running IPSec and using certificates.
Certificates are scaleable so we
wanted to be able to use that
And we couldn't really wait for
consensus to happen in the working group,
so this protocol was developed
to more or less bridge that gap.
And after all this time, there still is no real consensus.
Both protocols have -- both proposals have
advanced on to become proposed standard
within the IETF and may go on to Draft standard.
In the meantime, SCEP has been maintained
by Cisco as an IETF Internet Draft.
So the original problem that SCEP was intending to solve
was to supply certificates to routers running IPSec.
And if you think back, routers didn't
ship with any certificates at that time.
There was no concept of manufacturing certificates.
There was-- they didn't come with
pre-installed trust points of any kind.
And a router isn't a host that where you
can more or less download Safari or Firefox
and magically get sort of trust points that way.
So you have a bit of a bootstrap issue.
Basically, how do you obtain device certificates when you
don't have any kind of pre-established trust relationship?
And so if you look at the specification, it does talk
about a couple ways of approaching it, you know passing,
more or less passing like public keys and
doing fingerprint verification et cetera.
There are various ways to approach a problem
which I'm not going to really talk about here.
So, if you looked at the SCEP specification,
it's defined to run on top of HTTP mainly
because of the bootstrap issue we
talked about in the previous slide.
Now in the case of the iPhone, it's going to run SCEP over
HTTPS because it doesn't have that same bootstrap problem.
What's needed is the-- certificates that are issued by
a trust point that is already installed on the iPhone.
And so the certificates are used to secure the HTTPS
session between the iPhone and the SCEP server,
and then you run your SCEP protocol messages through
this pipe, basically your certificate request
and your-- and you know, your certificate reply.
And obviously this is not the same.
This third party CA is not the same as the
enterprise CA 'cause what you're trying to do
with this is obtain certificates that can be used
to grant you access into an enterprise network.
So SCEP is a protocol.
As I said earlier, it doesn't recall-- doesn't require
secure transport and that's because it's using PK--
the messages themselves are secured using PKCS#7.
There are a couple layers of wrapping.
There's one layer that basically takes and wraps the
message in PKCS#7, which is encrypted to the recipient.
Then there's another wrapping which takes-- another
PKCS#7 wrapping which takes and wraps the message
and that's-- that is signed by the sender.
Now the payload itself of the message is
there's a variety of messages if you look SCEP,
but the important ones here are PKCS#10 certificate request,
and x.509 certificate response or an SCEP control message,
you know, indication of success or failure or hang
on, I'm in the process of working on your request,
so wait a little bit and ask me again later.
So SCEP, as a protocol, operates
under two infrastructure models,
and this really has to do with
how this server is structured.
So the first model is-- on the SCEP
server is the certificate authority,
and the CA takes on all of the functionality that's needed.
This is involved, and it gets involved
in authorizing the clients,
it validates the enrollment requests
and issues the certificates.
While on the second model, the tasks are
split up where the CA is still responsible
for issuing certs, that's its main job in life.
And then there's this other party called the
registration authority, and in this particular model,
the registration authority is the
intermediary between the client and the CA
and so the communication goes from the client to the RA.
The RA is involved in the authorization
and validating of the enrollment request.
With this model, it's possible to place an RA then in the
DMZ and then have a secured connection from the RA to the CA
which will live in the corporate network.
And just as an aside, the CISCO IOS CA Server
supports both models of C only, CA only model
and the CA/RA model where the Microsoft CA server--
>> Actually their server does support SCEP as well as
extensions, but their model is really only an RA/CA model.
So, the purpose of all this is to
basically come up with some credentials
for our client, you know, either a device or user.
And so it becomes really important for SCEP to
integrate with existing authorization services.
Because in effect, you're trying to
come up with certificate credentials
that will replace another set of
credentials as this user ID/password.
And so what you're wanting is after all is said and
done, you know, using either the user ID/password
or using the certificate that you come
up with the same authorization result,
so that integration becomes very important.
And so there are a variety of authorization
models out there.
We're going to focus on two of them that are
likely going to be supported with the iPhone.
The first one is one time password,
and the other one is username password.
Now this is, this is involved in getting
the certificate in the first place.
And introduce a concept here of a profile
web service, and it has two major tasks.
The first task is involved in the authentication of the
iPhone client initially, and the other part it's responsible
for is there is something which we'll call an SCEP profile.
Its job is to construct that profile
and send that profile to the client.
And that profile, the client then takes that profile and
constructs a certificate enrollment request to the CA.
[ Coughs. ]
Excuse me.
So, we talk about the one-time password model.
I'll start out by saying that the certificate
services icon here, you can view it as a CA
or a CA/RA, it doesn't make any difference.
I'll say CA for simplicity here.
So anyhow, the client gets a-- has to
authenticate with the profile web service.
Profile web service may interact with the
Directory Service to perform some validation.
If the validation is successful, it is responsible
for obtaining a one-time password from the CA.
You could view this one-time password sort of as an
authorization token, a short-lived authorization token.
And so profile web service constructs the
SCEP profile, puts the one-time password
in that profile and sends it back to the client.
The client then takes this profile, turns around
and constructs the certificate enrollment request,
includes that one-time password and sends it to the CA.
The CA can perform the necessary validations, if it's
happy, it issues a certificate, sends it to the client.
The username password case is somewhat different.
There are a couple of points here.
One of the points is that with this particular
scenario, you can construct a certificate
and the certificate will contain the username
which may become meaningful in certain scenarios.
So this is one way to go about it.
And so, similar to the previous one, the
client authenticates the profile web service.
Now, the profile web service validates with the directory
services and if it's happy, it constructs information
in the SCEP profile and part of
the information is an encoding
of user name 'cause SCEP itself expects the username to be
either part of the SubjectName or SubjectAltName fields.
And so it basically encodes things
appropriately so the profile--
you know, so the client doesn't have to know what to do,
so that information is then passed
in the profile back to the client.
Now in this particular case, there is
a user name but there's not a password.
And so what happens is that the user, the
iPhone user is prompted for a password.
Now this is really an enrollment password conceptually
similar to the one-time password that is sent in, you know,
in the previous exchange where its job in life
is to be an authorization token for enrollment.
So, once that password has been entered,
the client will take the information,
construct a certificate enrollment request,
take the information including the username,
takes the password, sends it to the CA.
CA takes the username and password,
validates with Directory Services.
And if that validation goes okay, it issues
the cert, sends it back to the client.
As you notice in this particular scenario, there's a
lot more interaction with the Directory Services as part
of authorization or authentication and
authorization than there is in the previous scenario.
So, I'm going to touch a little
bit on the pilot for Cisco IT.
There is a whole bunch of people that want to be able
to use iPhone to connect into the Cisco VPN network.
This is really conceptual, you know, kind
of the 500,000-foot view of the world.
There's a lot of details that aren't on the slide.
But the main thing to remem-- the main
point out of this particular slide is
that this is actually a combination
of the previous two scenarios.
There will be a certificate issued with username and so
the, you know, taking the piece of the username stuff
from the previous slide, but there's still the
one-time password similar to that first scenario.
So both of those are munged together in the
exchange and so there is no specific prompt
that the user has to enter in a passcode.
So this is all, you know-- Once the initial
authentication is done, this all just runs on its own.
And so the purpose of this is to issue certificates
that can be used for Cisco IPSec VPN connections.
And so once the client has a certificate, it can then
present that certificate when it tries to connect,
you know, as part of the [inaudible] exchange.
It could present a certificate to the VPN server.
Cisco VPN Server can validate it.
If the validation succeeds, it will take that username
and validate the user within the Directory Services,
and if that succeeds it'll allow the connection to happen.
As an aside here, this is besides being
conceptual, this is still in fairly early phases.
We're still doing some design, some planning, some testing.
We've just received some iPhones for testing.
So, this is more or less the way we think this is going
to play out but, you know, like I said this is still
in early stages, so some of the
details may change over time.
So for more details about the SCEP protocol,
as I said earlier it's been maintained
as an internet draft in the IETF.
So there's a current draft out there.
If you go to the internet draft
database and enter SCEP, you'll find it.
There will be a new version of the draft available soon.
You know, this spec is an individual submission.
It's not a standards track.
It's not a working group submission, and that's
because it was submitted to the [inaudible] group
and was rejected mainly because there
were already these two other proposals
that the working group is working
on and they were focusing on that.
And so, we've been treating this as an
individual submission, excuse me, all this time.
So the goal is to publish this as an
RFC, hopefully an informational RFC,
but it won't be a standards track document.
However, even though it's not a standards track document,
the document has undergone recent review
from the IETF Security Area Directorate.
So, you know, in order to clean things up and clarify
things, and so we're hoping with that that we'll be able
to soon look at actually publishing this as an RFC.
So I'd like to end this by saying that at Cisco, there
are a lot of us that are really excited about the iPhone
and excited that we're going to be able to use
the iPhone to connect into the corporate network,
and we're happy that we're able to contribute
some technology to allow that to happen.
So, thank you.
>> Thanks Cheryl.
So at Apple we're really excited about providing
support for SCEP, but I want to put it in context
of what we're trying to do here for the iPhone.
So, we have the user authentication and this ensures that
your user is authorized to get the certificate enrollment.
We have the certificate enrollment itself
and this is using the SCEP protocol,
you can get a standard certificate
signing request and you get--
you can receive an identity for that particular iPhone.
But this all leads up to one particular feature
which is over the air device configuration.
And this is a service that you have to
build yourself in your infrastructure,
but the idea here is that you can deliver seamlessly
an encrypted configuration profile with the settings
for all your enterprise environment directly to an iPhone.
[ Pause ]
>> Now, what the user experience here is, is
that the user goes in, logs in with a name
and password and all this happens in the background.
You get a certificate through the enrollment process
provisioned down to the device, and then you can go back
to a profile web service, and that can give you a generated
configuration profile, securely down to the device as well.
And then the user hits one button to install that
configuration profile, and they're off and running.
Now, there are some pieces to this infrastructure that you
have to build yourself, and I just want to point them out.
So Directory Services, that's when
a-- authenticate your users.
Now, you have to hook this up to some kind of
web service, and I'll get to that in a second.
Your certificate service, now this could be an internal
public key infrastructure or an external hosted one.
It needs to support SCEP, so you need to
check with your vendor whether they do that.
And if you haven't deployed one, I think checking
out Cisco IOS is probably a good place to start.
And then the profile web service.
Now this is the glue that binds the whole workflow together.
It hosts the HTTPS session, it generates the configuration
profiles, it signs and encrypts those profiles.
And then often, what you also wanted to do is provide
a proxy back into the corporate infrastructure
to where your certificate service actually lies,
so that it's protected behind the firewall.
So there's a detailed session that goes over creation
of configuration profiles and creation of these types
of services, and there's a lab to go along with it.
Those are on Thursday.
There are also a couple sessions up
here around good practices of security
with the iPhone that I want to point you to.
So with that, I want to get into
a little bit about development.
Now, the applications for the iPhone have been fantastic.
We now have over 50,000 applications on the iTunes Store,
and many of those applications
are dedicated to enterprise use.
Now we couldn't do this without having created
a secure ecosystem to host these applications.
And we did that by leveraging a
bunch of technologies from Mac OS X.
Now, all applications on the device are signed.
The ones from the store are signed by Apple and the ones
from in-house deployments are signed
by the enterprises themselves.
Now, that ensures that the user knows that
that application hasn't been tampered with.
Additionally, we sandbox each application so it
cannot-- it restricts itself so it can only see its data
and not another application's data, and
it can't muck with the system data either.
And this ensures that you can deploy
secure applications without having to worry
about all the other applications on
the device mucking with that data.
And of course in the iPhone OS, we've implemented
all the security framework that you need.
We've-- for all the standards for
certificate key and encryption
and we also have our secure keychain
services so you can safely store credentials.
And as a neat new feature for iPhone 3G
S, we also support hardware encryption.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you.
>> Now this happens in the hardware to the data on
the fly, and it's completely transparent to the user.
And one of the great side benefits of this is
that remote wipe becomes almost instantaneous.
Because you don't actually have to erase any of the data,
it's all encrypted by key and you
can just throw that key away.
Now, your business is unique and some
of your users have specialized needs
or just really appreciate a custom workflow.
And this is especially true in the mobile workforce.
And so, putting together in-house apps
can really enable these mobile workers.
The idea here is that you give the data to
the user exactly when he needs to use it.
And what I encourage you to do is design these
things so that you have the minimal amount of input
and the exact output in data right
in front of the users that they need.
It's really important for these
applications to be designed for mobile use.
They need to run fast and they need to be
streamlined for the workflow of their users.
Now, you should follow good UI practices.
And if you want to follow the UI practices
that are already implemented on the iPhone,
that's probably best because it
really shortens the learning curve.
And integrate these applications in with the data in
your corporate infrastructure and also integrate them
in with applications like Safari so they can reach
out into the network and get that data for your users.
So our customers have put these iPhones in some really
incredible environments and I want to invite Dean Moore,
Sunbelt Rentals, up to share some
of his experiences with iPhone.
[ Applause ]
>> Hi everyone.
I'll spend a little bit of time today telling you about
our experience with application development with the iPhone
and the SDK and doing some nice in-house applications.
Before I do that, I'd like to give you a little history
or tell you a little bit about who Sunbelt Rentals is,
as well as explain to you why we
decided to develop our own application.
Sunbelt Rentals is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ashtead
Group plc, and we are traded on the UK Stock Exchange.
We're the third largest equipment rental company in
the country, and when you combine the entire group
with our European counterpart,
we're the second in the world.
We have over 400 locations in 34 states and th4e District
of Columbia, and 5500 employees and a sales force of 800.
We also have two iPhone developers.
Now, where we were.
I'm sure some of you when you look at these, you might be
able to relate to one or two of them but unfortunately,
we really had the perfect storm at Sunbelt.
We fit into all these categories.
We had a primary communication device for our sales
force which was a Sprint/Nextel two-way radio.
They used it for everything, communication
with their customers.
They used it to-- two-way radio back to a
branch to look up equipment availability rates.
We had very poor communication out to our field.
As procedures changed, we used to have
to have quarterly conference calls,
that information was usually late in getting to them.
Customer data, this is an interesting thing.
We actually printed the customer data
quarterly and bound it into a book.
Fortunately, by the time that stuff
hit the printer, it was already old
and it also cost us a lot of money to distribute that data.
We had very, very limited access to our
operational data while on the sales calls
and really tough time getting leads
and information out to our field.
Again, we printed that quarterly and by
the time they got it, it was too old.
About the only technology you see
there is that calculator that we put
into their notebook which didn't help them too much.
So when we took a look at where we
were, we decided we need to change,
we need to really make some changes
with how we do our business.
We needed to improve communication within the company.
We needed to move our sales force from a manual
procedure to something that was technology based.
I wanted to provide that sales force with live
pertinent information at the point of sale.
And you know point of sale for our reps
isn't sitting in an office somewhere.
These guys are on the job site in the job trailers or
in the dirt, they're right there with the contractors.
We also had a lot of different systems that we had
to, you know, we had to integrate in to get that data
to the sales reps, so we always want
to provide better customer service.
Now, there are other rental companies out there
and we all pretty much rent the same equipment.
But what really sets us apart at Sunbelt is our
customer service and we really pride ourselves on that.
So, how did we get there?
The iPhone.
We were able to leverage our current Microsoft Exchange
infrastructure to give us push mail, calendar, contacts,
and the address lookups, so this is real key.
This is information that we just couldn't
get out to a timely manner to our users.
They were, you know, stopping at one of the
branches on the way to work or possibly, you know,
after the day they were going and checking their email.
Now they have it all day long.
We're able to instantly communicate with them.
We then took the device, put a nice hardened case
around it, give it that nice construction look
and ruggedized it a little bit, and we wrote
our own custom application Mobile SalesPro.
>> Now Mobile SalesPro, it is truly
a complete mobile workflow.
Our sales reps are able to plan their week by having
a daily task planner right at their fingertips.
They can add new tasks, they can edit tasks,
they're able to look at new sales leads,
as well as share those leads with other reps.
And the key to it, it's all integrated
with our Microsoft CRM solution.
So all the data they're entering into their
iPhone is going right into our backend system.
So before, when they were using handwritten notes
and keeping track of their customers on paper,
we now have that data in our backend system.
So if a sales rep is to move on to another position or leave
the company, the next person that comes in can pick up right
where they left off and our customer
doesn't have to sacrifice.
We're able to prepare for that sales meeting
as they're pulling up to the job site
and getting ready to get out of their truck.
They can review their customer account detail.
They look at their current AR status.
Is this customer paying their invoices on time?
Could look at rental history as well and see
what current equipment they have on rent,
so that they can change really the way that--
the way they're going to speak to that customer,
possibly what they're going to try
and help that customer accomplish.
They're able to fulfill the customer request right there on
the job site by having real-time access to our inventory.
They're able to see where our equipment is, whether it be
at the local branch district level, their territory region,
with all the way up to the company and it's all real time.
They give a better level of service by having at their
fingertip access to email credit applications as well
as to review open invoices and contracts with the
customer, as well as email right from the device
and they can request equipment to be picked up.
So Mobile SalesPro, it truly is an end to end solution.
Whether our sales reps are planning or preparing
for their sales call, fulfilling requests
or adding to their customer service, they're able to do
everything anywhere with Mobile SalesPro and the iPhone.
Let me just talk a little bit about our development process.
Since there are only two of us, it is kind of simplified.
We kind of shrunk the project lifecycle, but we
did define some goals up front, some milestones.
We wanted to makes sure we got the key features included
and we had to put some milestones on that because, you know,
you have to keep, we have to keep
ourselves moving towards something.
Created some rough screen layout so we
got a feel for how the app should flow,
and we had direct communication
from developer to sales force.
So this is real key.
This is what kept us developing what our users needed
rather than us developing what we thought they needed.
We were able to have instant communication with them.
In fact, we even went out on sales calls.
We put on our steel tips and our hardhats
and we drove out and went on sales calls,
so we could see exactly what they needed
and how they were going to use the app.
Just to go over the timeline a little bit.
As you can see, we have some milestones set up there.
We started the application kind of as a sideline
project shortly after the SDK was released.
And in November timeframe, we added our first 10 users.
These ended up being really our base.
We got a lot of feedback from them.
As you can see, we progressively added more users.
We got more feedback, we developed more features
and then we just kept on repeating that process.
We just had a really large milestone about a week here.
We added an additional 1100 iPhones so we now have total of
1300 iPhones deployed, and the feedback has been phenomenal.
So, how do we get this data?
We have a lot of different systems.
At the base of it, we have an AS/400
which is really our backend system.
It handles AR, AP, GL, our complete inventory,
our rental counter, our point of sale.
It really is the heart of our business.
We have some Microsoft SQL Servers,
HRIS system, data warehouse.
We have a Microsoft CRM Server.
What we do is we have a .Net Server kind of in the middle
and it handles all the communication
between the back office and our iPhones.
Everything is requested through that .Net Server.
We handle it via web services.
Now, if we have to get data from SQL Server
it's handled through stored procedures.
If we have to get it from CRM, we'll use their approved API.
And for the 400, it's a little bit of stored
procedures as well as some RPG programs.
The data is then transmitted from the .Net Server to
the iPhone via XML over HTTPS, so it's all encrypted.
Now to get that data, we make an
HTTPS GET request to the web service.
That data is then transmitted down as I said as XML.
We wrote a custom wrapper for XML parsing that
basically goes through the XML, creates objects,
uses key value coding, fills those
models in that we displayed in the UI.
We do just the reverse when we have to post data.
We have a SOAP class.
We go ahead and we get a list of
all the properties for our objects.
We serialize those out to XML.
We then put some SOAP patterns on it.
We do an HTTPS post.
So we can do that both for single
objects as well as array of objects.
And again, the data is all encrypted.
Now to do all this, we needed to have a security model.
So the way we architected it is
the device asks for an employee ID,
everybody knows their employee
ID, and it asks for a password.
We then pass that through our system, we hit our HRIS
system, we validate there that they're a current employee.
If they are, we basically use a token or a GUID.
We store that in the database.
We shoot it down to the iPhone and we cache
it on the iPhone for a period of 24 hours.
Any data quest that-- data request that
happens from that iPhone must have that token
and that token must be valid, otherwise
we don't give it any data.
So here are some best practices.
Involve your users early in the
development process, listen to them.
They generally know what they want, and by involving
them, you make them part of the process, you empower them.
When they're empowered, they will
make sure you are successful.
Have a well defined and agreed upon
feature set, but be ready for change.
This is a new mobile platform.
You're going to make changes throughout
the process because it's new.
Develop and deploy in phases, and that will help you keep
on track with making sure you're meeting that feature set.
Follow the UI guidelines.
Can't stress this enough, if you make
your app, work like the built-an apps,
there will be no training for your users, whatsoever.
Architect once, leverage often.
This is kind of an interesting story.
As we were getting ready to deploy an additional
1100 phones, up until that point it was kind
of onesie-twosie, maybe 20 at a time, very manual.
We started to say, "Well you know,
we got to get Exchange on there.
How are we going to get that config file down to the users?"
Well, best practices says that
you go ahead and put a website up.
Have a, you know, login and then you can download the
provision file to the device and set your email up.
And the light went off and we said, "You know,
we did that already, we built it into the app."
So what we do is when you're setting up, put your user
ID in, your password in, then would give you a GUID.
You know, you verified your user.
We then open up another row in the table that's to set
up email, and we simply just launch an HTTPS request
with our GUID to our backend server and request
for the mobile config file to come down.
It can't be simpler than that and
it's completely integrated.
They don't have to type a web address in, they don't
have to do anything but set up the application.
So, what's next for Sunbelt Rentals?
Literally the sky is the limit.
This is a new mobile platform for us.
We've added a feedback feature right into our application
so that our users can easily give us feedback as far
as enhancement requests, possible
bugs, it's all entered right
into our CRM system, and the feedback has been phenomenal.
We're getting requests probably faster than we can code them
which is obviously a good thing
because it helps us keep going.
We're also finding that we're getting people from other
business units that are coming to us and saying, "Wow,
you see what you did for the sales
force, what about service?"
So, it's just going to continue to grow.
Mobile SalesPro as well as the iPhone is definitely
changing the way we do business at Sunbelt Rentals.
Thank you everyone for your time.
[ Applause ]
>> So when we created the iPhone,
we knew we had something special.
But as we put these devices in our customers' hands
and giving them an SDK, I'm just really blown away
with what they've been able to do with it.
That's a great story Dean, thank you.
So we covered integration of the iPhone into
your existing enterprise infrastructure.
We covered deploying the iPhone out to your end-users
and we've covered developing in-house
applications for your specific business needs.
I'd like to thank all of you for attending the session
and I'd really like to thank our guest presenters,
and can you give them a round of applause.
[ Applause ]
>> Duncan Keefe from Apple, Cheryl Madson from
Cisco, and Dean Moore from Sunbelt Rentals,
thank you and enjoy the rest of the week.
[ Applause ]